Hi friends, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining for the first time, very
nice to meet you. I'm Rachel. So the Data Science Hangout is an open space for the whole
data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions you're
facing, and what's going on in the world of data science. The sessions are recorded and
shared to YouTube as well as the rstudio Data Science Hangout site. So you always can go
back and rewatch older sessions or find helpful resources there too. We also have a LinkedIn
group for the Hangout too. So if you ever want to continue the discussion with somebody
or ask other questions there, feel free to use that as well. I know a lot of times it's
me posting in there. So feel free to start your own posts in that group too. Last week,
Marcos had shared an idea of starting a show and tell or show and share thread there. So
you could maybe highlight a side project you're working on, maybe a cool tutorial or article
you found as well. At the Hangouts, we're dedicated to creating a welcoming environment
for everybody. So we love when everyone can participate and we can hear from everybody.
So there's three ways you can ask questions today. If you haven't been here before, I'll
walk you through this. So you can jump in and raise your hand on Zoom. You can put questions
in the Zoom chat. And feel free to just put a little star next to your question if you
want to meet or read it out loud. Maybe you're in a loud environment. And then lastly, we also
have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously. And my colleague Tyler just shared
that in the chat right now. Just want to reiterate, we love to hear from everybody. So no matter your
level of experience or the area of work as well. But with that, I am so excited to be joined by
my co-host for today, Tiger Tang, Manager of Data Science at CARFAX. And Tiger, I'd love to have you
introduce yourself and maybe tell us a little bit about your role, the company, and also something
you like to do in your free time outside of work. Oh sure, thanks Rachel. So my name is Tiger and
then I'm really glad to be a part of the Data Science Hangout. And then I've been following
and watching a couple of videos in the past. They've been also very helpful to me. And then
so I'm currently a Data Science Manager at CARFAX. We are a company focusing on providing the
data insights for consumers to better own, shop, and then purchase their vehicle, all that. And then
oh great, I saw somebody use CARFAX before. So great. And then so my role is basically
building a data science team. And then that's mostly focused on NLP because we receive a lot
of car information where we have to use a lot of the NLP techniques to handle and then to make it
displayable on our product. And then we also do some of the forecasting. And then that's my main
team's focus. And then we do a lot of analytics here and there. And then for this team we have,
so far this is our second year. And then so it's from almost one or zero to now I think around
seven to eight people. That number fluctuates because of the number of interns that we have.
Yeah. And then in my free time and then I like to collect shells, so seashells. If I go to like a
different beach and then I will check out on the sand. And then yeah, just you'll probably, if you
see me, you know, just keeping my head down for a couple hours, that's me just trying to find
shark teeth, all that. Usually nothing can be found, but I just enjoy looking for things.
It reminds me of a little bit like data mining, right? But usually I think with R, I can find a
little bit more things, but just me walking by the sand and then by the ocean, usually the sifter is
not as good as the R tools I use at work. I love it. And that's why you have the blue
background there, like the sea. I know somebody had reached out to me earlier this week and
said that they love to learn a little bit more about NLP use cases. And since you focus on this
area, I'd love to learn a little bit more about how you use NLP. Oh, sure. So for that, let's just
say if you go to a specific, let's just say one example is that if you go to like a service shop
and then to service your car, and then you will get an invoice of saying that this is the stuff
that they have performed services on. And then basically we will probably receive like
information, pieces of information similar to that invoice layout. But then the data content
is probably maybe could be just written by the technician. It could be a standardized language
for that specific location or management system. And when we get there, get that, and then it could
really be a million different ways to say, to try to express the same service. So this is where
we will try to make a good sense of that data and trying to understand, Hey, Rachel, for your
car service, let's just say last Friday, what was being done there. So that once we have that
information, we can display that on the product. So then I think most of our cases is trying to
make the sense that the, the human region data or that type of car related information. And,
and I will say that techniques you would use is, is something that could really differ between,
let's just say, if you're, if we're just doing a prototype and the initial proof of concept,
you can just start by building very simple and straightforward, let's just say,
logistic models. And then just to, and there's of course, the Julia. So I don't know how to
pronounce it was last name correctly, but there are books on the, what is that? The, the tidy
models with, I think there's also a, with a meal and that book, the supervised machine learning
with R and then on tax modeling, all that. Those are very great resources. If people are interested
in, let's just say applying NLP related stuff in their other work. But I guess most important case
to me is to find a great is a, Oh, somebody already shared the link. Thanks Libby. And then
I think establish the business case first is very important, but then the model development
can really differ just based on the timeline that you have and the resources you have.
Thanks for sharing that in the chat to Olivia. I was just about to say, would someone be able
to share that? Cause I'm bad at multitasking here and you were right on it. Appreciate it.
Tiger. I, I know you gave, I already just posted about this on LinkedIn because I loved your,
our studio conference talk as well. But I'd love to hear a little bit more about your experience
of kind of selling data science to the business and getting the team on board.
Oh yeah. That, that is a great question. And then I think it's something that
I think this is also one of the things that I really love about the what's been going on
recent years about data science is that I think let's just say take the time back to 10 years ago
and then people are still trying to have a better definition about data science. But now
people from different back with different background, they would have heard data science
here and there. So I think makes our job easier to sell the concept to, you don't have to really
bring people up to speed on a specific background to try and to say, Hey if you haven't heard,
this is a great, you know, data science is a great help. Right. But now we were, we got to
just to be able to focus on saying that if we can utilize specific data science tools or
techniques, these are the specific business value that we can just bring. And then, so you don't
have to sell the concept of data science. You just need to sell let's just say specific project by
project. So that's that's what I did in the past is that once I realized, Oh if there is a
a multiple different ways for us to develop, let's just say processes,
processes, reporting tools to help business people, account representatives to better manage
the account to to be more effective at their jobs. Then I would just use that specific business case
and then share that with upper management and then say, Hey guys, I think I recently, you know,
identified this idea that will, as an example, will help us to speed off our roadmap by two
years. Do you want to hear about that? And at that time, I think the one of the things I learned is
that, you know, at that stage, you don't really need to mention any of the tools you use. Even
though I am a big fan of R, big fan of Shiny, and then I want to talk about it wherever I go.
But then I think in the several of those experience when I talk about when I got
so focused on about the tools and about the techniques, I guess that's that's turns out
that's not everybody's focus. That's probably people's focus when you share the same background
when you are talking to a fellow data scientist. So they're going to get excited too. So but in
this case, I just said, Hey, this is the value. This is how much time you can save. This is how
much business value that we can accumulate with such shorter time. And then if you allow me and
I can present you a roadmap, right? If you give me like a one month of doing the pilot, I can even
show you some of the initial business value. So I never tried to persuade people to say, Hey,
data science is valuable. I think showing it exactly, you know, give me a week, give me two
weeks, I'm going to show you a proof of concept right there. And then they will buy in the idea
themselves. So I think so that's what have worked out really well for me. And I think I also have
a very understanding leadership there. So there when they once they see that,
and then I think the buying process went very smoothly.
That's great. Thank you. And I see Mark, you're commenting in the chat. Can I have you share that
as well? Is that okay? Yeah, sure. Sorry. Yeah, I just said that Tiger, some of the stuff that you
talked about in your conference talk have actually used like some of those ideas to get a project
greenlight, basically just starting from the value problem and working backwards to
what I'm interested in, which is like how to do it. But, you know, telling to the stakeholder,
like, here's why you would actually be interested in this, which I'm not always the best at doing
going in that direction. So yeah, glad that that methodology worked out. Great. Awesome to hear.
Do you have any tips for how we can all get better at doing that? Or communicating that
to the business? So I know it's like putting it in terms of the money and return on investment.
But do you have other tips for communication? Oh, yeah. So one of the things I, I think my,
one of my former boss, and then did this exercise a lot of times with me is that
sometimes I want to get, let's just say the technical details. And so he would always say
to me, hey, Tiger, how about this? Explain to me like I'm a five year old. So that's where I'm
trying to, that's where my, I just turn myself into like, let's just say if this is a difficult
concept, can I use very good analogy there? And then to make people understand. So when I say that,
as an example, if I say I want to try explore a different NLP method, and then this will,
you know, need different, you know, let's just say additional resources. But when I say that, hey,
this is a different, different, different method I wanted to try, how do I show that's, you know,
because this is exploration phase, how do I show this additional value? Then one of the, well,
one of the analogy I came up with, I still, I'm still not sure if it's a good analogy. So I'm
going to try it. And then you guys can let me know. So I'm going to say that, hey, when you
have the raw data, this is like you're, you have, you know, like, let's just say rate by state,
and then this whole modeling process is like a cooking. So once you have the, let's just say
logistic model, a deep learning, and then let's just say the transfer models, then these are just
different ways of cooking the same steak. And then let's just say you can pan fry, and then you can
use an air fryer, which is the newer ways. And then, but we really need to try different ways
and to identify the best way to cook this piece of steak. And then the hyper-parameter tuning,
those are just, you know, us to trying to tune, change the time of cooking, turn the, let's just
say the, you know, use the oven for, to change the temperature of cooking, right? So that's where
suddenly all of these big words from the, from those, let's just say machine learning methodology,
turn it into something that most people can relate, right? And then I think everybody,
whenever I said that, and then people are like, yeah, yeah, I think I know what you're saying.
So, but I just don't know. Yeah, I think analogy is definitely a great way to get everybody
there. And then another thing is that I would always hold, try to hold the urge
of sharing any of the technical breakthrough that I really wanted to share with everybody.
So one example is that I think around four years ago, I was in the RStudio conference
and I heard RStudio folks and then talked about the future plus promises so that you can have,
make your apps async, asynchronous, so that you can handle multiple processes at the same time.
I got super excited because I have several apps that handles a lot of requests that would have
been, would have been, let's just say hundreds of ticket requests to our department. And then
this is where I was saying, oh, we need to invest more time to do this, but then I don't really have
a good way. And then I was saying, we can make the app asynchronous. R is a, you know, it says,
can only handle single threaded jobs. People are lost. And then I was like, how can you, you know,
how come this is a, you know, I think everybody had a great feedback when Joe Chan was talking
about it. How come I can't get that across? And then later on, I realized that it's a,
unless this is happening to people, downgrading people's app experience,
they should never need to know R is single threaded because it doesn't really matter.
So in that case, I was like, oh, I sense the room is, nobody's understanding what I'm saying.
So then I was saying that, you know what, if we do this, even if we have 10 users running those
different tasks at the same time, their experience is going to be perfect. But right now, if you have
them doing that, I think everybody has to wait. And then the business side, yeah, let's do it.
So I think this is the part that still, of course, I was still sharing that, hey, we're,
once the promises are out, we're maybe, maybe one or two months after the talk I heard,
I implemented right away. So I was still proud of that. And I've still talked to,
let's say my team members to say, hey, you know what, later on, you know, our studio folks told me
once I shared this, our studio folks told us we were one of the first group that implemented this.
So I still feel proud. It's just that I just don't share that with my stakeholder because I know,
hey, fellow data scientists, they can get it. So I would say, use analogy wherever you can,
of course, run that by your colleagues maybe. And then the other one is hold the urge of sharing
technical breakthrough with your stakeholder or with your maybe upper management, whoever does not
have, who doesn't have this data scientist background as you do. Maybe share that with,
let's just say across teams, something like that. That's incredibly helpful. Thank you.
I see there's a lot of anonymous questions starting to come in as well on Slido. So just
a reminder, people can ask questions over there on Slido too. But one was, what's the difference
between a business analyst and data scientists or data science manager in your eyes?
Oh, well, I can only offer my understanding there. So business analysts, I think, in my
company, and then there will be more focused on, let's just say,
building that bridge between the business side and then some of the analytics side.
And then building, let's just say, translating the business needs to the development criteria
that developers and then, let's just say, data scientists needs to follow.
So I almost think business analysts, they need to have the, let's just say, more have
that business mindset rather than the analytical mindset. So it's a mixture, maybe like 80-20,
something like that. But if you're talking about, let's just say, data analysts, they probably,
we need to balance that a little bit more like a 50-50. And then for my role, specifically for
my company, I'm trying to develop this team and then I have, let's just say, data analysts,
data scientists, and then other function that related to how my company utilizes data science.
So I hope that helped clarify that. Thank you.
Niall, I see you asked a question in the Zoom chat. Do you want to jump in and ask it?
Yeah, sure. So you talked earlier, Sagar, about bringing the ideas to the stakeholders,
which leads me to assume that a lot of your projects are created within the data science team,
you know, you're spitballing, brainstorming, coming up with ideas, and then sort of selling
them, which is great when it works. And I'm curious about your balance between those projects
and projects that are coming from outside within the organization saying, hey, we really want to
do this and we think you guys have the skills to help, and how you sort of balance those. And then
also the success rate of each, I guess, is where I'm really interested. Like, are they more likely
to succeed if they're coming in with that outside buy-in at the start, or if they're coming in with
your knowledge of data science? Gotcha, gotcha. Oh, that's a great question. I actually,
well, this is something I'm still working on. Yes, I'm preparing a presentation to actually
work, what is that, evaluating some of those ideas for business-related data science idea,
you know, coming from them instead of coming from my team. So I would say that immediately
just makes me think about, let's just say, two things. The first one is that how possible that
is to achieve, let's just say, in the realistic timeline. Because when they, well, we definitely,
you know, a lot of the ideas coming from everywhere, but sometimes we may not really
get the data to help us to come up with, let's just say, a reliable recommendation.
So this is something that I think whenever we receive this type of request, I would always
ask for, let's just say, one to two weeks of either, I wouldn't really call that proof of
concept. It's even an initial investigation to try to see how possible, you know, that,
do we have all the data points? Do we think this is, we can provide a viable solution to the
business problem that they are talking about? And then the next thing is, if there is a great
potential, then I would try to, let's just say, try to see if we can put this on our roadmap.
So this would involve, like, prioritization. So trying to say that, hey, how big, how important
this is compared to all the other projects that the team is currently focusing on. So to me,
that's almost like two-step. If there is, if everything works well, right, we validate this
idea and we think we can offer some of the viable solutions, and then we T-shirt size it,
then we send it for, let's just say, stakeholders to discuss to say, this one is going to take
maybe half a year, but we are currently have a full roadmap. Do you think it's going to,
we can do that maybe next year? If not, how about the, you know, you guys can decide which one is
more important. But yeah, I'm totally with you that there is a specific, the success rate,
I never thought about it that way, but I never really measured it, I should say.
But I would say it is something, I think what turned out to be the case is that some of the
ideas that the business folks that I mentioned maybe two years back, and then now we suddenly
realize, oh, we suddenly have the data, suddenly have the tools to make it happen. This is where
we're going to pitch again among the stakeholders and then the upper management to say, now this is
possible. Two years ago, maybe not. So I think, yeah, I hope that, well, I don't know if that
answered your question, but it's my experience on that so far. Thanks, Segar. What was that
process for going back to projects that were proposed like two years ago? Oh, yeah. So,
well, we don't really have a specific process. It's almost like keeping track of all the ideas
that we want to do in the, that we didn't get a chance, either the resources or we didn't know
the technology to make it happen, or even where it didn't have the data points to make that happen.
So from time to time, people will come up with similar ideas. It's just that if we revisit them
at a later time, maybe once a year for all the past two years' ideas, I think sometimes we can
find some of the valuable information there or even, let's just say,
updated or enhanced idea, like a sub-idea out of those. Thank you.
Oh, can you say that again, Frank? Yeah, do you use software to track that
or does everyone just keep it in a document and you get together for the annual idea hash?
Oh, yeah. I wish we have a... So, well, we are trying to find out better software,
but usually it's just like a document where we have that, but we use the roadmap tools.
So the roadmap tools will save all the ideas where we put on blocks. And then so once in a while,
we will look at all the ideas on maybe block from two years ago. And then I think so far,
we've been able to catch that through that. But I guess if we are able to set a reminder and say,
let's revisit this in two years, I think that would be great too.
Definitely. I see there was an anonymous question a bit earlier that was,
Tiger, I looked at your background and you have an education and business school.
Is that a path you'd recommend to people interested in data or more tech fields?
Oh, so for the education? Oh, yeah. So that's, well, that wasn't really planned, to be honest.
At that time, I think the people are still trying to define, I think the graduate school trying to
define the data science related majors. So it just happened to be under the business school.
But of course, we have some of the business school courses, which turned out to be very helpful.
But I think I also heard a lot of great talks in the past on the data science hangout, I think.
I don't think there is like a specific requirement for the people in the,
let's just say, have to have to those type of background. But I guess,
all of these, I heard a lot of people talking about the podcast and I watched Frank's episode
that he also mentioned a bunch of the great recommendations there. So I think with those,
we don't really have to, let's just say, go to a specific business school to get that information.
I think now it's all available online for free. So I almost think that it's a mindset that we
need to all acquire. I think it's an important direction we need to go, but it doesn't really
need to go to that specific school, I would say. Also love to hear that you're going back
and watching the other episodes too. Yeah, those are great.
Frank, I see you had asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in for that?
I would love to. Tiger, I'm really curious. Are you or your team exploring using in any
way, shape or form some of the newer large language models like GPT-3 that are coming out?
Like you do NLP work. There's some awesome advances, which pairs really well with the
idea of revisiting projects that weren't possible before. And if not, do those hit your radar?
And are you hopeful that you will be able to use that in the future?
Oh, yeah, yeah. We are. But this is something that I checked with Mark. I was planning to have
because this is a Thursday event, right? And there's another Tuesday event that people
want to share like what's going on with the work, all that. So I was all prepared to talk about,
oh, this is how we do NLP at this company. And then later on, I was told that, oh, these are
just something that I'm not allowed to share. So by my level, I am. The details I cannot share.
But yeah, I'm super excited about those and then exploring those things. And then I think one of
the. Yeah, well, the rest I'm going to say is I think I will receive some questions there.
But yeah, I'm very high level. I'm very excited. And then this is something that we're my team is
exploring. Right. You've got to be probably as excited as I am that it's September 1st
and OpenAI is bringing down the cost of hitting their their API. Yeah. Right on.
Cool. Thank you. There is an anonymous question now that was,
what is your relationship with IT like at your organization?
Oh, yeah, I think so. Overall, I'm into a very good relationship with the IT department.
And then while I think this is one of the amazing thing about working at Carfax,
in my experience is that they're just usually very, extremely helpful. And then I know that
while you're doing a lot of exploration, sometimes you run things on your computer,
you'll get a lot of questions. Right. And then sometimes installing things. But I think.
Well, maybe because I'm into a very good relationship. Whenever I got a call out and
then it's not that serious. But I would say one of the maybe if you're at a much bigger
organization where you do not get to know the whole team, then I think it would be nice to
at least, you know, explore the let's just say maybe run it by them for some of those
things that you're going to do. And then sometimes you even need to have stronger hardware. And then
I think these are the part that I think maybe because we're like a mid-sized company. So
knowing them personally actually smooths my experience. So I guess if people have,
let's just say, other experience with a bigger company or let's just say different experience
there, I'd love to hear about those as well. But if we are in an organization, a huge
company where we don't know IT yet and we haven't built relationships with them,
what do you think is the best way to go about that?
Oh, then I would say let's build a relationship. Just connect with them and then say that, hey,
here's something that I will need to do. And I will need a lot of those things will need
admin rights. I think probably people, some of the people can relate. And then yeah. And then
I just tell them this is exactly what you're going to do. And then sometimes I think people
is they are going to tell you, hey, nobody can have admin rights and then say, can we have like
one day, right? Or two hours where you can even just look at my screen or you can help me there
up to you. So when you are asking for smaller things, people are less likely to say no.
So but I think my original answer is that, oh, I need admin rights to make this work.
But then no. And then I was like, can we have one day? And then I think the response is much softer.
So that's great. Does your one day turn into multiple days?
Yes. I hope my IT friends didn't see this.
Somebody else had a question earlier. It was how much time do you explain R or any other specific
language within your organization? I'm not sure if that's getting at like training or explaining the
or explaining the languages to business users.
But it was anonymous. So feel free to add more context to the Slido.
But on that note, do you do training for people who are just interested in getting started
learning? Yes. Yes, I do. And then I think before I got my, let's just say, went to the
came to the U.S. for the, let's just say, data analytics or data science degree,
I have been a teacher in China. And then so I really love the feeling, let's just say,
of sharing and helping people to succeed in the way. And then so I really enjoy teaching. And then
so this is where I think after we've gone through the initial R training at our organization,
and I began to develop the materials for folks and then who might not able to capture all the
learnings in, let's just say, compressed two to three days. And then we have some default training.
And then later on, when there's new things, and then we will just do a sharing session.
So as right now, we are also my team is also preparing for some of the recurring sharing
session around the company. Yeah, and also, well, after the R student conference,
participating in that, and then of course, we're going to do like a show and tell,
this is what you learned. So I think it is something would always,
well, if it, if we can build like a regular cadence, just like a data science hangout,
similarly within the company, I think it's a great growing atmosphere that we can build.
And everybody, not everybody can, well, we only have the energy to focus on a small part of the,
which is the R packages that we're interested in. But then if we cannot gather that together,
and then it's almost like we're learning, let's just say, from four other people,
four other people, five other people are all helping us to gather that information.
So our learning speed is should be much faster.
That's great. And do some people join those groups or those sessions who are just like
starting to like scratch the surface of data science or just starting to express interest?
Oh, yeah. So that is always a hard part because people have different needs, right? So the
training will be open to business people who are interested in analytics, and then new R users,
and then data scientists, senior data analysts, all that. So when it comes to that, and then I
will, at the beginning of the training, when I send out the invite, I will say, these are the
expectations. So before this training, you're expected to complete X, Y, Z. And then after the
training, you will expect it to master X, Y, Z. So if you already know the answer to, let's say,
this next two questions, no need to come to the training or the sharing session. So we will have,
let's just say, the beginner to intermediate session one time, intermediate session one time,
and then the advanced session, maybe only a few people will show up. So but having that,
having set up the expectation, and of course, always record it, and then people, then it will
be helpful for people later on. So this year, we all, my team, we have several new people joining.
Then we have them to, let's just say, look at the past recordings,
and then the past handbook that we created within Carfax about R.
Cool, thank you. I see, Lisa, you just asked a great question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Sure. I'm just curious, and I'm sorry, I did jump in a little bit late, but I did go to your talk at
our studio conference, which was awesome. So I'm just wondering, like, what types of tools,
like analytics tools, were available to you on your first day? And then if you could, like,
you know, I, in your talk, and, and so far today, you've talked maybe slightly more generically
about how to get, you know, buy-in from whoever the people are you need buy-in from, but like,
was there a specific project? And I know you probably can't talk about details, but maybe, like,
the themes of the type of project it was? Was it more like machine learning type stuff? Was it more
like, I don't know, shiny, reproducible reporting? Like, what sort of area kind of helped you most
convince people of the tools you needed? Yeah, that's, yeah, yeah, it does. Okay, Lisa, and then
it's a great question. So I would say, I would just first answer your, the later part of the
question is that work, what really worked out for our project, for my project, is, is our
project is, it starts with a Shiny app, because the Shiny app, it has actually has a shorter
runway of developing. So, and then after, and then once, well, you have the Shiny app
developed, and I think our, well, this is something, well, I can still make it very
shareable, so is that, let's just say, we receive a lot of business requests, and then to handle
that business request is something that you will need to have an analyst to look into databases,
to do a lot of web requests, and then to compile those, maybe in, let's just say, in R, in Excel, all
that, and then share like the, like the finding for a specific, let's just say, query. And then, but
as more and more requests that we are getting from them, we realize that it is taking a lot
of the analyst's time, and then, but then the logic that we follow to get those information
is very similar. So, then we decided to build a Shiny app, and then to have all of these things
handled by Shiny. So, then instead of having the business folks creating a, let's just say, a request,
go through our internal system, gets assigned to our business analyst or, or data analyst there,
and then they would have to wait in the queue, right, for maybe one or a day or so, maybe a
couple hours, then they spend, let's just say, 30 minutes to work on it. Now, it's going to be a click
and run for the requester, and then this whole workflow will be gone, right, will be replaced
by Shiny. So, the initial app that, I think, serious app that I developed, and then that just does
exactly that. This is something that allow the, allow me to say, with those three Shiny apps, or
the first series of Shiny apps, we were able to handle, I think yesterday I did the count again,
I think was each week, or each month, now we're still handling 560 requests that would have been
a ticket request coming to this department. And then, so with that, well, the modeling stuff is
something that you will need a longer runway to prove the value, but for the developing of those
apps, it's much shorter. And then the request that the business need that you handled is something
that would work maybe for majority of the corporates, is that we are just saving time.
We're making business requests handled faster than before, and here's the value.
And then the back to your first question is that, so luckily, I joined this company,
Carfax, as an intern, and then I moved to a business analyst, and then data scientist, and then
trying to develop a team. So I started, at that time, I think what was available to me was Excel
and SAS. So maybe some of the folks, maybe you've seen the same at that time, right? Now we're all
trying to move to different things. So what were those steps then, from going from Excel and SAS
to being able to use other tools? Oh, this is the process that, I think, for me, I was just so
excited about this new stuff. So I kind of forced myself to learn things very quickly, but we have a
whole group, right? At that time, I'm just one of the team members. And then when I saw, oh,
there's a lot of potential for people to do the same, but I couldn't really, it's difficult for
you to talk to your, let's just say, colleagues side by side, and then to say, hey, there's a much
better way to do it. It's, I don't know, it's not really a good way to try to stimulate change,
right? Especially when you're on the same team. So I think little, what I found was that, oh,
what if I can just try to automate, streamline this process, and then just show them, oh,
you know what, Rachel, this one, you see, you handed off me this process two months ago,
and then used to take, I think, half a day, let's say, each week. Now with this, it's just,
I just need to click and run. And then, so, and then you would have, it's easy for you to see
the difference. It was like, oh, I know that you have a similar task there. I can, if you like,
we can work together to get that started. So gradually, that's how I was able to identify, oh,
if we could make that, the streamlining things into a project, that is how I got the work
automation project. And then, so, instead of trying to do all the training to get people to
adapt all the new things, you make that whole mission as a project. And then so people are like,
yeah, this is a business thing, a business initiative we're doing. We're not asked to
learn new things. We're just asked to work on this business initiative. Throughout the process,
people are, let's just say, voluntarily, they fall into the trap, a learning trap that I set
up for them, right? And then they got the excitement of getting things working by click
of a button. And then they gradually, they want to know what's going on behind that.
And then whenever there is error messages, they will come to me and they'll say, oh, yeah.
So whenever this one shows up, it means that one of the environment wasn't set up correctly.
So we're not asking them to learn it from zero to one. And we're just saying,
I'm going to hand you off at two, you know, halfway there, right? And gradually, you are
going to trying to go back and then go forward and then trying to see the direct value there.
So it sounds like very similar to how we get to the stakeholder is that I'm just going to show it
to you. I don't want to, I don't need to be correct to persuade you. I just want to be
helpful. And then this is one of the, I think, having a, making a business initiative
makes people forget about, I'm asked to learn new things, all that, right? So we kind of get
past that. So, yeah, in a way, I think this is almost like a hacky way of getting that done.
Thank you.
Yeah, thank you so much. I know this is something that a lot of people
face in their organizations. So sorry if I just like drive into this too much, but
I'm just really curious though, if, if people can't like use the tools to begin with,
do they just like do it on the side or like, they're just like using Shiny on their own desktop
or did you use Shiny apps AO? Like, what do you do first, like a first step if someone is like
completely like roadblocked by the company? Oh, are you talking about, let's just say...
Well, you were saying like, you shared that, like a better way of doing this. And now this
report that used to take half a day is now so much quicker. But I'm thinking about the people
who have told me like, I really want to do this, but I can't do it yet. Do we just like go ahead
and do a POC and then show someone later? Oh, yeah, yeah. I think if I understand
the question correctly, I think we have to probably do for the initial, first initial things.
It may be hard for you to ask for time or resources to say, this is something new I'm
going to try. I heard every, you know, people outside the company heard it's great. So this
is where I think I spent initial time at the very beginning, just as an investment. I guess sometimes
you, because at that time I was, I feel the urge to make it happen. So I spend some extra time
to make that initial thing work. But then later on, it makes it easier and easier for you to ask
for resources and time. And that's for Shiny app. And then the initial one is, well, we don't really,
well, there's also the open source Shiny server, right? So you can always use that as a start and
then to pitch your idea and then hosting it on your desktop. It also works. So let's just say
one of my colleagues, he developed, let's just say the auto-evaluation for the files that we
need to look at. So if you have like a specific raw data that you need to analyze, you know,
the steps that you do for the initial analyzing is very similar. Then you set up the
analyzing function right after the import, just using the Shiny app. So with a click of a button,
you will see the, let's just say the analyzed, let's just say the summary stats that you're
looking for specifically for your company, for your team. So you can just use that and run it
on your desktop and then showcase that. And then immediately, I would bet people would at least use
10 to 15 minutes to set it up, all that. But if you make that automatic, just with a click of a
button, it shows the value right away. And you don't need to go through the, let's just say,
server, setting up server, all that. Thank you. Super helpful.
I see a few questions from earlier. One was, what are the typical project timelines,
given that Carfax is a consumer-facing service? I'm sure this varies, but do you have an average?
Unfortunately, I don't.
Let's see. Another question from earlier was, how did you actually quantify the number of hours
that you save the organization with automation and data science?
Yeah, that's a great one. So that's something that I would say at the very beginning,
you want to have a clear definition of what type of time you're counting. So when you're running,
let's just say, when you're working on analysis, so pulling data, let's just say from different
databases, that will take time. So if you're doing it step-by-step, it's also taking up your
time to wait for those queries. Those are what I would just say is the processing time. Regardless
of if it's two days or one hour, I don't count those. I only count the actual time that people
have to be focused to interact with things. And then that's just my definition. I'm not saying
this is just what I do, not my recommendation specifically. But once you identify that,
oh, it's going to be the manual hours that people spend, then before you apply the screen
lining or automation, before you can ask the current report owner, process owner,
maybe sometimes it's yourself, estimate the number of hours you need to spend on a weekly,
daily, monthly basis first. And then you time yourself again after you streamline it.
So what I used to have is a table of things. These are the tasks that we apply automation for.
This is the before time. And then each month, if it's a daily task, you use that daily task times
20, whatever number of days that you need to work on that. And then this is the afterwards time.
And so it's a very simple table that you can calculate. So each month, and then you can say,
hey, I apply automation on the five tasks as listed. This is the total time saving.
But before, we need maybe 50 hours. Now we need two hours. In total, we saved 48.
That's great. Thank you. Super helpful.
Libby, I love the question you just put into the chat. Would you want to jump in here?
All right. Oh, there you are. Oh, we have Kitty.
You're a very needy kitty. I'm sorry, everybody. I was going to ask about onboarding. So onboarding
in data science teams can be a little bit of a challenge for some people. And I've been through
that as well as a data science employee. And I was wondering if you'd found any kind of best
practices that make onboarding a more positive experience for everybody, including team members
that are existing, right? That can be a burden for a new person coming in and taking other people's
time to train them and get them up and going on stuff. Did you have anything to share?
Oh, yeah. I think that's a great question. It's still something that I'm trying to improve.
So I wouldn't say it's a maybe it's not a good recommendation.
But just so what I do now, what we do now is we try to I feel the onboarding, the way I think
about that is almost like you're training, you're offering a specific training for people to let's
just say to get better and then to get to get them prepared for the work. And then the working
culture, the let's just say the institutional knowledge, all of that and setting up the
them for success for those tools. And then in general, we would have a let's just say like
a like a guideline, almost like a training guide. You have the agenda for, hey, this is what we want
you to go through for the first, let's just say one month. And then and a lot of times we use the
let's just say videos. And then we will have the impersonal training online with different folks
that touches different ideas, touches different subjects. But I guess for specifically for data
science or data analytics roles, what I have found helpful or I think one of the keys I want to get
them up to speed is analytical project. And those type of things are usually deeply connected with
business needs. So this is something that usually I would just start with a high level business goals
and then making sure the business goal clicks first. So so, you know, let's just say if this
is for a let's just say a specific project we're working on, then I want to first go over how
this report, how this process will help us to or help another team to get, let's just say,
more accurate result, more, let's say, more effective approach to deal with, let's just say,
to make a better product. And then I will go over the high level process of what
individual staff will we will need to go through. So to usually the tasks that we were going to
first hand off are the ones that everybody can click and run. So we are trying to minimize their
learning gap and then not trying to intimidate people, intimidate people. Oh, there are so many
things I need to learn. No, we're going to give you that quick success feeling first. It's almost
like, you know, getting people trained up with R, right? I want you to feel the power of click and
run. This is great. I helped solve the business problem that Tiger just mentioned to me an hour
ago. And then lastly, I would go over the difficult part that we face in this in this process. So
those are the ones maybe tricky part. For example, if we're if this is a Shiny app we're supporting,
then I would go over some of the last common things that we would use or more difficult,
more complicated setup that we have. For example, if this analyst is not is not familiar with the
let's just say future promises, then it's a good idea for for us to be prepared to share that maybe
as a last step of handing off that project to them. So typically onboarding, that's what I would
follow is minimize the let's just say, don't get them, don't intimidate them. Just start with the
why we're doing things. And then we offer, let's just say the quick success feeling,
feeling everybody is, you know, feels great about this process. Lastly, we went over the
harder ones. So later on, let's just say the next iteration, people will feel, oh,
I know exactly why I'm doing this. I know how to do it. So that's the second step. And lastly,
in case there's any difficult questions, I can reach out to Tiger or I can, you know,
figure it out based on the information Tiger shared or other team members shared.
So I would say that's my high level idea for onboarding.
Thank you, Tiger. That actually sounds a lot like getting executive buy-in or business partner buy-in
really offer quick wins, build trust and then move into things that are more difficult or
more complex. I think that's fantastic. I've never heard it described that way.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, I guess I kind of feel like in the end, we're just working with people, right?
Right. Yeah. Either way, it's people.
Yeah, we're trying to make all the experience smoother. And I guess, oh, it all comes down
to us to bear all of these, let's say ideas, you know, in our own mind. So people working around us,
they're, let's just say, receiving the good experience there.
Love that advice. I see, Brittany, you have your hand raised too. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, when I heard onboarding, my mind literally started like flying off in fireworks.
At least at my company, we over years have tried to refine our onboarding process constantly.
And one thing that we found is actually using,
like making sure that your onboarding is really, really well documented.
And then knowing who is responsible for what in terms of onboarding. So whenever we onboard
a new team member, they typically have a mentor that will be their mentor for at least the first
six months, probably the first year that they're with the company. And then they have their team
leader and their specific tasks that we've actually assigned out to the mentors and the team
leaders. And one of the things you brought up too is making sure that that new team member has a
focus and has ownership, something that they can really like run with and provide value with. And
we've actually used Microsoft Planner to like literally lay out almost like an Asana type board
where there's tasks assigned to each person and like all of the bitty gritty things from like
HR onboarding all the way through like reflection after the first 90 days. It's all kind of laid out
there. So I think it's also good just to really like, even if it's as simple as just post-it notes
on a whiteboard, really understanding all of the different things that someone has to do when they
onboard and then making that plain and available for them. So actually you make sure there's no
gaps or things that you miss when you're onboarding people and maybe on person A got, you know, XYZ
when they onboarded, but they missed ABC and things like that. So we just found that like
having something like that set up and then just making copies for each new person we onboard
was really, really helpful. I'm curious for both of you and whoever wants to jump in. Colin from
RStudio and I were chatting about this with onboarding. How do you also ensure that you share
the team culture right from the start or the company culture when people are going through
like so many like checklists of these are the things that I have to go through?
Yeah, so from, I think just now I heard great advice and then I really like the,
I think everybody's prefer their visual type of layout and I think that's, yeah,
that's something I'm definitely going to check out. And then let's just say from my side and then
while we bundle that task, let's just say we work together with HR team on that to make work fun and
then so that's how one of the things that we promote and then we also have like, so we would
kind of share that task and then so HR team will organize the, let's just say, since most people
are online now, the online events and then to trying to have that, let's just say,
a different experience outside of the Zoom meeting type of work. And then, and I guess
the other one is that we also sometimes it's the, I think the company culture type of thing is
something I also try to try a lot of different ways and then try to say, oh, this is how I
experienced. I want you to feel maybe similarly, but then I realized that I have several years of
staying in this company. So it's something that I think later on I realized it's something that
maybe we'll just from time to time let the people experience that, just give them more time. So we
will share the, there's a high level, but in the end I will always say or share that it's something
that you will have the first-hand experience yourself. So I would find opportunity for them
to connect with other team members in person if there is opportunity, but if not, and then we will
just try to, I think, you know, connect with people online with different Zoom activities. I think
there is a different vendors for that type of activity as well. Allen, I'm sorry, I realized
I missed your question earlier. Do you want to jump in and ask that one? Yeah, and no worries
there. This is a classic, like, I have to ask a question and then go to my next, like, far less
interesting meeting at the top of the hour. But I'm curious, Tiger, if your team ends up in a
situation where you build these really, like, interesting, developed, and exciting tools that
provide lots of value for folks and then end up needing to sort of support and own it for the
long term. And if you're faced with the dilemma of how do we, you know, provide that support while
continuing to give, like, meaningful, interesting, new work to the folks on the team, for me that's
a dilemma of figuring out, you know, how do we maintain stuff and also continue to develop.
And so I wonder if you've got a good solution there. Yeah, Allen, that's a great question. So
I, well, luckily, I think, yeah, we still need to do that as well. So it's the same issue that
we're facing here. So luckily, I guess the maintenance work is probably, of the, let's
just say, maybe five to ten percent portions, it's a very small portion. We don't, we haven't
got to the stage where we have to impact our, let's just say, regular bigger project. But one of the
things I think we are trying to follow in the past is that if it's just to, just maintenance work,
that will have this, for example, application to keep functioning, we will definitely take care of
it right away, you know, as soon as we can. But if it is new additional features, we will treat that
as additional, just brand new work. We wouldn't consider that as something that, oh, we feel
obliged to work on that, you know, before any of the other bigger projects. We try to follow through
the prioritization process that I mentioned earlier, is that for that type of work,
we will treat it as a brand new thing. And then we will try to evaluate to say,
with this enhancement feature versus another brand new app, which one does the stakeholder
want earlier? So I think we will, if this one indeed has more business value,
then we'll work on that first. So in the end, we will let the business side to decide which
one has more value. So, but using that, having that, it did save us, let's just say,
save us from some of those dilemmas where we feel really obliged to enhance that feature,
but then we don't really want to delay another next exciting project. So once we have followed
this prioritization method, I think everybody feels better of how, because we are following a
substantive process here. We're not trying, it is not me or the team members saying that
this is something that I don't want to work on. So I hope that helps a little bit.
Yeah, for sure it does. I really appreciate that distinction. And I think establishing
that expectation that we will need to do that kind of prioritization and life cycle thinking
with stakeholders is really important. So I think it's a good mark of success that you're
able to do that and say like, you know, there's a maintenance category and there's a new work
category and we need, you know, stakeholders help to help navigate and steer those things.
So yeah, really, really appreciate it. Thanks. Great, great conversation. Thanks, everybody.
Thank you. And I feel like the hour went by even quicker today than it normally does.
So I know we're a few minutes over and a few people have to go run to meetings and Tiger,
I think you might have to go run to a meeting as well. But thank you so much for sharing your
experience with us. If people do want to stay on and chat, I'll keep the bridge open. I think
there may be where a few questions I didn't get to. But Tiger, really appreciate your time.
If people have follow up, is the best place to connect with you LinkedIn or
Twitter? Which do you prefer? Oh, yeah, LinkedIn or Twitter.
Okay, awesome. And we can share that in the chat here as well. Awesome.
Well, thank you so much. Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai